.journey/tutorial.neos.md, before:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD024 MD033 MD036 MD041 -->
<walkthrough-metadata>
  <meta name="title" content="How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform" />
  <meta name="description" content="Learn how to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform" />
  <meta name="keywords" content="Gemini CLI, Gemini, Google Cloud Platform, GCP, Cloud Run, Compute Engine, VPC" />
</walkthrough-metadata>

# How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources


## Let's get started

![Tutorial header image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NucleusEngineering/serverless/main/.images/run.jpg)

Gemini CLI is a command-line interface for Google Cloud Platform. It is a tool that allows you to deploy and manage resources on Google Cloud Platform via Gemini CLI's Extensions(MCP servers).

<walkthrough-tutorial-difficulty difficulty="2"></walkthrough-tutorial-difficulty>

Estimated time:
<walkthrough-tutorial-duration duration="20"></walkthrough-tutorial-duration>

To get started, click **Start**.

## Introduction
Today, we'll visit the our prompt generator [Prompt Generator](https://p-gen.alper.run). We'll share some inputs to generate some prompts.

On this case; the prompt generator will generate prompts for us to deploying resources like Compute Engine, VPC, etc.

### **What you'll learn**

* How to use Gemini CLI on Google Cloud Platform directly.
* How to work with the Gemini CLI extensions.
* How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform


## Project Setup

First, make sure you have the correct project selected.

<walkthrough-project-setup billing="true"></walkthrough-project-setup>

Make sure that you use the project with the masterclass billing account.

Next, enable the required Google APIs for this tutorial.

<walkthrough-enable-apis apis="compute.googleapis.com"></walkthrough-enable-apis>

## Install Gemini CLI Extensions

First, you'll install gcloud extension for Gemini CLI

```bash
gemini extensions install https://github.com/gemini-cli-extensions/gcloud
```

Now we can continue with starting Gemini CLI

```bash
gemini
```

Now we have Gemini CLI installed and ready to use on the Cloud Shell!


## Deploying Resources via Gemini CLI

Now that the gcloud extension has installed, you can deploy resources via prompts which generated by our prompt generator.

If you aren't remember you need to visit [Prompt Generator](https://p-gen.alper.run) for generating prompts. 



## Congratulations!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

Congratulations for completing the masterclass!

We recommend to keep updated with the Gemini CLI documentation on [Gemini CLI](https://geminicli.com/docs). 


### **What we've covered** 

* How can reach Gemini CLI on Google Cloud Platform.
* How to install Gemini CLI extensions.
* How to deploy resources via Gemini CLI.

  
## Summary

You now know how to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform.

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

You have completed the tutorial, well done! Please take a moment and let us know
what you think.

<walkthrough-inline-feedback></walkthrough-inline-feedback>



## Clean up

To avoid inadvertent charges, (for example, if the Cloud Run services are inadvertently invoked more times than  [your monthly Cloud Run invokement allocation in the free tier](https://cloud.google.com/free/docs/gcp-free-tier#free-tier-usage-limits)), you can either delete the Cloud Run or delete the project.

To delete the Cloud Run Services, go to the Cloud Run Cloud Console at  https://console.cloud.google.com/run and delete the all services.

If you choose to delete the entire project, you can go to  [https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager), select the project you created in Step 2, and choose Delete. If you delete the project, you'll need to change projects in your Cloud SDK. You can view the list of all available projects by running `gcloud projects list`.

Commit message:

docs: Add Gemini CLI account verification and reauthentication instructions to the tutorial.

.journey/tutorial.neos.md, after:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD024 MD033 MD036 MD041 -->
<walkthrough-metadata>
  <meta name="title" content="How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform" />
  <meta name="description" content="Learn how to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform" />
  <meta name="keywords" content="Gemini CLI, Gemini, Google Cloud Platform, GCP, Cloud Run, Compute Engine, VPC" />
</walkthrough-metadata>

# How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources


## Let's get started

![Tutorial header image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NucleusEngineering/serverless/main/.images/run.jpg)

Gemini CLI is a command-line interface for Google Cloud Platform. It is a tool that allows you to deploy and manage resources on Google Cloud Platform via Gemini CLI's Extensions(MCP servers).

<walkthrough-tutorial-difficulty difficulty="2"></walkthrough-tutorial-difficulty>

Estimated time:
<walkthrough-tutorial-duration duration="20"></walkthrough-tutorial-duration>

To get started, click **Start**.

## Introduction
Today, we'll visit the our prompt generator [Prompt Generator](https://p-gen.alper.run). We'll share some inputs to generate some prompts.

On this case; the prompt generator will generate prompts for us to deploying resources like Compute Engine, VPC, etc.

### **What you'll learn**

* How to use Gemini CLI on Google Cloud Platform directly.
* How to work with the Gemini CLI extensions.
* How to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform


## Project Setup

First, make sure you have the correct project selected.

<walkthrough-project-setup billing="true"></walkthrough-project-setup>

Make sure that you use the project with the masterclass billing account.

Next, enable the required Google APIs for this tutorial.

<walkthrough-enable-apis apis="compute.googleapis.com"></walkthrough-enable-apis>

## Install Gemini CLI Extensions

First, you'll install gcloud extension for Gemini CLI

```bash
gemini extensions install https://github.com/gemini-cli-extensions/gcloud
```

Now we can continue with starting Gemini CLI

```bash
gemini
```

Now we have Gemini CLI installed and ready to use on the Cloud Shell!

If you're first time reaching Gemini CLI on cloud shell you need to verify your account. 

You can verify via selecting cloud shell credentials or google account verification.

**Note: If you get an error, you can try reauthenticate your account by running the following command:**

```bash
gcloud auth login
``` 


## Deploying Resources via Gemini CLI

Now that the gcloud extension has installed, you can deploy resources via prompts which generated by our prompt generator.

If you aren't remember you need to visit [Prompt Generator](https://p-gen.alper.run) for generating prompts. 



## Congratulations!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

Congratulations for completing the masterclass!

We recommend to keep updated with the Gemini CLI documentation on [Gemini CLI](https://geminicli.com/docs). 


### **What we've covered** 

* How can reach Gemini CLI on Google Cloud Platform.
* How to install Gemini CLI extensions.
* How to deploy resources via Gemini CLI.

  
## Summary

You now know how to use Gemini CLI to deploy resources to Google Cloud Platform.

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

You have completed the tutorial, well done! Please take a moment and let us know
what you think.

<walkthrough-inline-feedback></walkthrough-inline-feedback>



## Clean up

To avoid inadvertent charges, (for example, if the Cloud Run services are inadvertently invoked more times than  [your monthly Cloud Run invokement allocation in the free tier](https://cloud.google.com/free/docs/gcp-free-tier#free-tier-usage-limits)), you can either delete the Cloud Run or delete the project.

To delete the Cloud Run Services, go to the Cloud Run Cloud Console at  https://console.cloud.google.com/run and delete the all services.

If you choose to delete the entire project, you can go to  [https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager), select the project you created in Step 2, and choose Delete. If you delete the project, you'll need to change projects in your Cloud SDK. You can view the list of all available projects by running `gcloud projects list`.
